documentation/source/install.rst, before:

.. _install:

************
Installation
************

Using cocotb requires installation of prerequisites and installation of cocotb itself.
In this document, we are assuming that you already have a
:ref:`supported simulator<simulator-support>` available in :envvar:`PATH`.


.. _install-prerequisites:

Installation of Prerequisites
=============================

The current stable version of cocotb requires:

* Python 3.6+
* Python development packages (Python/C API headers and embedding library)
* GCC 4.8.1+, Clang 3.3+ or Microsoft Visual C++ 14.21+ and associated development packages
* GNU Make 3+
* A Verilog or VHDL simulator, depending on your :term:`RTL` source code

.. versionchanged:: 1.6.0 Dropped Python 3.5 support

.. versionchanged:: 1.4 Dropped Python 2 support

.. note:: In order to use a 32-bit simulator you need to use a 32-bit version of Python.

The installation instructions vary depending on your operating system:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      `Conda <https://conda.io/>`_ is an open-source package and environment management system that we recommend for Windows.

      Download and install `Miniconda <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html>`_ from https://conda.io/.
      From an Anaconda Prompt, use the following line to install a compiler (GCC or Clang) and GNU Make:

      .. code-block::

         conda install -c msys2 m2-base m2-make

   .. group-tab:: Linux - Debian

      In a terminal, run

      .. code-block:: bash

          sudo apt-get install make gcc g++ python3 python3-dev python3-pip

   .. group-tab:: Linux - Red Hat

      In a terminal, run

      .. code-block:: bash

          sudo yum install make gcc gcc-c++ libstdc++-devel python3 python3-devel python3-pip

   .. group-tab:: macOS

      We recommend using the `Homebrew <https://brew.sh/>`_ package manager.
      After installing it, run the following line in a terminal:

      .. code-block:: bash

           brew install python icarus-verilog gtkwave


.. _install-cocotb:
.. _installation-via-pip:

Installation of cocotb
======================

The **stable version** of cocotb can be installed by running

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install cocotb

.. note::

    The reusable bus interfaces and testbenching components have recently been moved to the `cocotb-bus <https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb-bus>`_ package.
    You can easily install these at the same time as cocotb by adding the ``bus`` extra install: ``pip install cocotb[bus]``.

.. note::

    If your user does not have permissions to install cocotb using the instructions above,
    try adding the ``--user`` option to :command:`pip`
    (see `the pip documentation <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/user_guide/#user-installs>`_).

.. warning::

    :command:`pip` may belong to a different Python installation to what you expect.
    Use ``pip -V`` to check.
    If this prints "(python 2.7)", use :command:`pip3` or ``python3 -m pip`` in place of :command:`pip` in the command shown.

If you want to install the **development version** of cocotb,
`instructions are here <https://docs.cocotb.org/en/latest/install_devel.html>`_.

After installation, you should be able to execute :command:`cocotb-config`.
If it is not found, you need to append its location to the :envvar:`PATH` environment variable.
This may happen when you use the ``--user`` option to :command:`pip`,
in which case the location is documented :ref:`here<python:inst-alt-install-user>`.


For more installation options, please see `our Wiki <https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/wiki/Tier-2-Setup-Instructions>`_.

Commit message:

Add warning to installation docs about building FLI support

documentation/source/install.rst, after:

.. _install:

************
Installation
************

Using cocotb requires installation of prerequisites and installation of cocotb itself.
In this document, we are assuming that you already have a
:ref:`supported simulator<simulator-support>` available in :envvar:`PATH`.


.. _install-prerequisites:

Installation of Prerequisites
=============================

The current stable version of cocotb requires:

* Python 3.6+
* Python development packages (Python/C API headers and embedding library)
* GCC 4.8.1+, Clang 3.3+ or Microsoft Visual C++ 14.21+ and associated development packages
* GNU Make 3+
* A Verilog or VHDL simulator, depending on your :term:`RTL` source code

.. versionchanged:: 1.6.0 Dropped Python 3.5 support

.. versionchanged:: 1.4 Dropped Python 2 support

.. note:: In order to use a 32-bit simulator you need to use a 32-bit version of Python.

The installation instructions vary depending on your operating system:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      `Conda <https://conda.io/>`_ is an open-source package and environment management system that we recommend for Windows.

      Download and install `Miniconda <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html>`_ from https://conda.io/.
      From an Anaconda Prompt, use the following line to install a compiler (GCC or Clang) and GNU Make:

      .. code-block::

         conda install -c msys2 m2-base m2-make

   .. group-tab:: Linux - Debian

      In a terminal, run

      .. code-block:: bash

          sudo apt-get install make gcc g++ python3 python3-dev python3-pip

   .. group-tab:: Linux - Red Hat

      In a terminal, run

      .. code-block:: bash

          sudo yum install make gcc gcc-c++ libstdc++-devel python3 python3-devel python3-pip

   .. group-tab:: macOS

      We recommend using the `Homebrew <https://brew.sh/>`_ package manager.
      After installing it, run the following line in a terminal:

      .. code-block:: bash

           brew install python icarus-verilog gtkwave


.. _install-cocotb:
.. _installation-via-pip:

Installation of cocotb
======================

The **stable version** of cocotb can be installed by running

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install cocotb

.. note::

    The reusable bus interfaces and testbenching components have recently been moved to the `cocotb-bus <https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb-bus>`_ package.
    You can easily install these at the same time as cocotb by adding the ``bus`` extra install: ``pip install cocotb[bus]``.

.. note::

    If your user does not have permissions to install cocotb using the instructions above,
    try adding the ``--user`` option to :command:`pip`
    (see `the pip documentation <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/user_guide/#user-installs>`_).

.. warning::

    :command:`pip` may belong to a different Python installation to what you expect.
    Use ``pip -V`` to check.
    If this prints "(python 2.7)", use :command:`pip3` or ``python3 -m pip`` in place of :command:`pip` in the command shown.

.. warning::

        If you need to test VHDL in Questa, you must make sure that Questa is in your PATH before attempting to install cocotb.
        Failure to do so will build cocotb without FLI support necessary to test VHDL in Questa.
        If you end up in the situation where your cocotb doesn't have FLI support and you need it,
        add the `--no-cache-dir` option to `pip install` to rebuild cocotb from scratch.

If you want to install the **development version** of cocotb,
`instructions are here <https://docs.cocotb.org/en/latest/install_devel.html>`_.

After installation, you should be able to execute :command:`cocotb-config`.
If it is not found, you need to append its location to the :envvar:`PATH` environment variable.
This may happen when you use the ``--user`` option to :command:`pip`,
in which case the location is documented :ref:`here<python:inst-alt-install-user>`.


For more installation options, please see `our Wiki <https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/wiki/Tier-2-Setup-Instructions>`_.
